So we want to have a cart.
Right now we have a pizza type.
We have a pepperoni that kind of like displays
to the one that you have selected there.
Now we want to have a cart over here
where basically people can click add to cart
and it's not going to just hard refresh the page, right?
Go to order.jsx.
We're going to import cart from .slash cart,
which we are going to build momentarily.
One more hook here.
Const cart set cart equals use state another empty array.
And then on the form here, so form on submit,
we want to write a function here with the event
e.preventDefault.
That's probably not going to be surprising
to anyone that's written form code before.
It prevents it from being submitted, right?
And then we're just going to set cart
and we're going to say dash dash dash cart.
And then we're just going to add the pizza
that they have selected.
So it's selected pizza, size is pizza size and price.
Oh yeah, it's bad right now
because they don't have a cart component.
That's not real yet.
That's fine.
So event, we're used to that, preventDefault.
This is another spread operator.
So the other thing we could have done is like cart.concat,
right, and then put in that
or cart.push would have worked as well.
This is just another way of doing it
called the spread operator is say like,
hey, spread the entire cart before this
and then add one more object after that.
That's all that that does.
Someone might ask me, hey,
why don't you just put an onClick here
instead of a onSubmit up there?
You can, but let me tell you why I think this is better.
What happens if they're on,
what happens if you have a text input and someone hits enter?
What happens?
If you have just an onClick handler, nothing happens.
And people expect when they're on a form
and they hit enter that it submits the form, right?
So that's why onSubmit is better
because it handles both of those cases.
Generally speaking, it's just more accessible
that like screen readers and tools like that
are very good at handling form elements.
And so if you just kind of hook into
the way browsers normally work,
you get kind of all the accessibility for free.
Okay, and then just inside the last closing div here,
we're gonna put one more thing.
We're gonna say, if it's loading,
then we're gonna say h2 loading.
And if it's not loading, then we're gonna say cart
is assigned cart, cart, cart, cart, cart, cart, cart.
The cart component, the property that we're gonna pass
into it is the cart.
And then we need to go build the cart after this.
Okay.
So please, if you will, make a cart.jsx.
Let's make another price formatter.
We might be running into the territory of wet, right?
Right thrice.
So I might end up making a function.
If this was my project, I might end up making a function
that like handle that or it could be a hook.
It doesn't have to be a hook, but it could be a hook
because it's just literally just one function.
The only thing is like, imagine if you were doing
internationalization and you did wanna switch
between currencies, you'd have to go change this
in every single place, whereas if it was one place,
you could do it.
But no one does that.
Doesn't seem like a real thing people do.
Just kidding, people do that all the time.
That was my job at Netflix.
Currency and then style, what am I doing here?
Style is currency and then currency is USD.
Okay, export, default, function, cart.
Now I could put props here, but you can also destructure
because that can be fun sometimes.
So I'm gonna put cart and checkout in here.
Let total equal zero.
We need to tally up how much stuff is in our cart.
So let's do that first.
For let i equal zero, i is less than zero.
Less than cart.length, i plus plus.
And then we're just gonna say const current equals cart i.
And total plus equals current.pizza.sizes,
current.size.
Okay.
Someone might say, hey, Brian,
why don't you use a reduce here?
And to them I say, go back to Haskell.
A former Brian in a former life would have written this
as a reduce, but I realized way later that I was writing
reduces because I thought they were fun
and not because I thought they were clear.
And so when I run into a lot of maps and reduces
and stuff like that, I tend to just like,
no, this is probably just easier as a for loop.
It makes it more readable to not just you,
but to everyone around you.
So that is why I do not write this as a reduce.
There's something extremely satisfying
like writing like those long chains.
But usually that satisfaction is smugness
and not actually because it's good code.
Anyway, div class name equals cart.
The H2 we're going to put here is cart.
And then we're going to do a UL
because it's an unordered list.
And then we're going to say cart.map.
And then we're going to do item index.
And we're going to do the forbidden thing
that I told you not to do,
where we're going to use index as the key.
Why?
Because none of the things in our cart
are guaranteed unique, right?
You can have three medium pepperoni pizzas,
in which case what would be,
there is no thing there, right?
So this is a specific case where using the index
as the key is what you're supposed to do.
Okay, span.
Okay, span class name equals size, item.size.
And we have three of these.
I'm going to make that one type.
So this has to be dot pizza dot name, I guess.
Okay, that's fine.
And this has to be price.
So you have size, size, pizza dot name,
and item dot price.
Cool.
Then we're going to do p.
Total is, and we're going to use our
international format total.
Close that.
And then we're going to write another button.
On click, here we're going to use on click
because this isn't a form.
There's nothing else to add to the cart form.
So an on click here is the correct thing to do.
And we're going to call just checkout.
We need to go provide what checkout is going to do,
but you'll see this kind of passing down
of functions from parent to child fairly frequently.
You're basically saying like, hey, component,
whenever something happens, just call me back, right?
Just call this function and I'll take care of it.
So this cart component is kind of a dumb component, right?
It doesn't really have much logic unto itself.
It just displays stuff.
Some people will take this to the extreme and say like,
there's display components and functional components
and they separate everything into display and functional.
I think that is silly and I don't do it,
but someone does and they are silly.
Yeah, so we did an export default.
So that is our cart.
That seems like it's working okay.
The checkout doesn't do anything yet.
So this will be an undefined function.
So if you click it, you're going to cause an error.
Oh, we have to add a cart here or checkout.
Okay.
And it looks like I put the cart in the wrong place.
Let's go figure out why that's in the wrong place.
But this looks right, I think so far.
So let's go back to order and figure out
where this was supposed to be.
CSS is easy.
I don't know if anyone told you that.
This is why this CSS is actually terrible
because it's so reliant on structure
to get the correct selectors.
Yeah, I just wrapped everything here in an order page
right there.
And then I put my cart just inside that last div
and that should get everything all laid out nicely.
We're getting close here.
We should be able to add to cart, okay, now.
So if I click add to cart,
notice that we get stuff that starts getting added.
The total is being generated correctly.
There's no spaces here, which probably seems like
I might've messed up some class name somewhere.
Okay, so we're going to the cart page
and just after each one of these,
we're just going to add a dash.
And that's how I made these separate a little bit better.